# Solid Project: DEIT

* Date: 2021-11-09T16:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-deit
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/DEIT
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/deit


## Present
* Marrelle
* Kyra
* Virginia
* Matthias
* Timea
* Sarven
* Jordan
* Vincent

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven


### Introductions
* Jordan: I'm in LA. Reading about the solid project. Have a daughter in school.. and trying to give direction on how she can get involved. We wanted to see how we can get involved. Perhaps Talk to MB but unsure. I wasn't sure if this is the meeting to attend. Listening in the backgroujnd.. hello everybody!

---

## Topics

### Survey

???

* VB: We haven't published the results of the survey yet. Kyra and I have been busy. We might want to discuss where to publish if we want to have that in the new website or in the current one. Somewhere.

* MB: Post it on forum, Gitter and Twitter. But I can't monitor the Gitter. It is a bit overwhelming but the other channels are great space. If Kyra and Virginia needs help, I can.

* MB: Submitting the sruvey this or next week?

* VB: Beginning of December. After Nov 17.

* MB: To create an inclusive environment we can figure out a strategy for next year. Perhaps to kick off the year, we can publish the survey. Do some action items *like that* - snaps fingers. How to interact with the community.. just to give us some breathing time.

* KA: Could you repeat the question?

* MB: What if we take an ACTION item to figure out next two months on what we want to do next year? What do we want to do and how do we see it.

* KA: Had some cool idas early on but then we had life and work. There were ideas on buddy system.. and to create safe space ideas. we might want to look at project board. Perhaps we can plan that for the new year. Who will work on them etc.

* TT: Structure for round tables. we have an ACtion item in the backlog. Which is partnering with accessibility teams. "DEI people". The round table could be an opportunity to do so.

* MB: Perhaps people/someone from PWE CG could join?

ACTION: MB to look over issues and figure out what we need for next year.


### Reach out

* MB: ???

* VB: What kind of event or structure are you thinking about? Open forum type of situation?

* MB: Panel. People can ask questions. We can give resources.

* KA: We can have conversation. Perhaps we can have a framework 


ACTION: MB to look into having a proposal / framework. Will create issue.


### DEIT to review Use Cases in Specification development
Context: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/commit/de452f1103d67a420eaa8afbd42266df741bfbdb#diff-2a1edabf1967ee14a1506d75d06ad86aa5efe1a63df0cf576be276ae87962cf2

* SC: Specifications and use cases might help people express themselves, but could also allow people to harrass others or otherwise induce undesirable behaviour. I would like the DEIT to review those use cases to verify whether it aligns with the goals of Solid and is in line with e.g. the ethical web principles and addresses accessibility concerns. Proposals should need approval by the DEI Team.
* MB: How would be set this up/what would be the next steps?
* SC: If there are no objections I can bring this up with the editors. We can create a GitHub Team for the DEI Team, and then the editors can assign that as reviewer for PRs.
* VT: How do we prevent delaying everything when either the DEI Team doesn't understand a proposal, or don't have the bandwidth to look in the first place.
* SC: We could set a reasonable timeframe in which we'd expect someone to respond? (I'm just brainstorming, other suggestions welcome.)
* VB: If reviews are required, that could be communicated in the Gitter room?
* TT: We could set a time period in which we figure out how this would work in practice, without actually blocking the specs. So we could proactively provide input and see if we can do so in a timely fashion.

ACTION: SC to raise interest in UC review by DEIT to notifications-panel. SC to create deit team in solid org.


### Discussion in a GitHub issue
URL: https://github.com/solid/solidos/issues/88#issuecomment-963513647

* SC: noting Group Agreement to defer until a meeting in which Jeff is present.


### Holidays

* TT: Are we on holiday in December?
* VB: we can meet one more time.
* MB: That gives me enough time to look at the strategy.
